🇺🇦 Ukraine Travel Portal – Product Requirements Document (PRD)

General

Project Overview

The Ukraine Travel Portal is a public-facing, multilingual web platform aimed at promoting and supporting safe, informed, and seamless travel to Ukraine. It serves as both an informational hub and a transactional interface for purchasing tourist insurance, booking accommodations, and exploring curated tour experiences.

Project Goals

Provide up-to-date, trustworthy, and easy-to-navigate travel information.

Simplify mandatory travel requirements, such as purchasing tourist insurance.

Support the Ukrainian tourism economy through hotel and tour bookings.

Position Ukraine as a resilient, welcoming, and safe destination in a post-crisis world.

Target Audience

Foreign Tourists planning to visit Ukraine.

Diaspora Ukrainians returning to visit friends and family.

International Volunteers, NGO workers, and Journalists requiring local guidance and insurance.

Digital Nomads and Remote Workers interested in long-term stays.

Tourism Service Providers (e.g. guides, hoteliers) looking to reach international travelers.

Primary Pillars of the Portal

Trust & Safety

Prioritize accurate, official, and regularly updated content.

Promote safe regions and services; avoid misinformation.

Simplicity & Accessibility

Clean, mobile-first UI with language support and minimal friction in booking or reading.

Simple onboarding for non-technical content editors.

Smart Integration

Seamless backend/API connections with travel, insurance, and booking providers.

Built-in payment and document delivery systems.

Resilience & Promotion

Show that Ukraine is open and safe to visit.

Support the economy by spotlighting local services and businesses.

Security & Privacy

Handle personal user data and payment flows securely.

Apply industry best practices for authentication, data storage, and third-party API access.

Build trust through transparency, encrypted communication, and regulatory compliance.

🔸 Travel Information Architecture (L0 → L1 → L2)

/travel-info (L0)

Entry Rules

Visa Requirements & Access (dynamic by nationality)

Internal country database (visa regime, length of stay, required documents, risk markers)

Required Documents (goal of trip, financial means, accommodation proof)

Epidemic Restrictions & Limitations

COVID-19, Yellow Fever, Malaria, etc. + source data (WHO, MoH, MFA)

Insurance

Overview of mandatory coverage

Online form + parameter input

Redirect or embed partner flow

DB record: store policy until 7 days after expiration

Hotels

Level 1: Search form for destination, dates, guests

Level 2: Results page with filters

Filters: price slider, star rating, amenities (wifi, parking, free cancellation), distance (if API supports), "safe zone only" toggle

Partner integration (API/embed/redirect)

No local inventory; DB only stores issued voucher metadata

Transportation

How to get to Ukraine (border crossing, flights, etc.)

Internal mobility (incl. integration with UZ - Ukrzaliznytsia)

Explore Ukraine

Top Destinations: Kyiv, Lviv, Odesa, Chernobyl, Carpathians

Undiscovered Gems: Chernivtsi, Poltava, Bessarabia, Uman, Chernihiv

UNESCO Heritage & Candidate Sites (L2)

By Region:

West, Center, South, North, East

Culinary Heritage, Wine Culture, MICE Activities

Tours & Packages

Discoverable by city/type

Internal and partner-curated listings

MICE Travel

National positioning

Regional MICE capabilities by macro-region and activity

Essential Information

Security

Communication & Phones

Currency and Exchange

Electricity

Weather and Climate

Language

Taxes, Tips & Duty Free

Bottom Block

Emergency Contacts & Recommendations

Events & Activities

FAQs & Help Desk

News & Updates

Useful Governmental Address Book (embassies, OVIR, customs, police, etc.)

🔸 Insurance Flow (based on Visit Ukraine UX)

/insurance landing page

Description why it's mandatory

CTA → Start form

Insurance Form

Input: nationality, trip dates, age, # of people

Optional: COVID/risk coverage

Quote retrieval

API call or widget display

Pricing returned with conditions

Payment flow

Redirect or embed (Stripe, Fondy, etc.)

Confirmation

Policy PDF sent via email

Saved in DB until 7 days post-expiration

Support

If user is volunteer → redirect to specialized plan or help desk contact

DB Structure: Insurance Policies

Field

Type

Description

policy_id

string

External policy reference

user_email

string

User email

coverage

string

Type of coverage

start_date

date

Start of coverage

end_date

date

End of coverage

created_at

datetime

Date of policy issuance

🔸 Entry Rules Functional Logic

Drop-down country selector (user nationality)

Query internal visa database

Display result (no visa, visa on arrival, e-visa)

Additional document list if required (e.g., purpose proof, funds)

Risk markers (not shown publicly)

Migration risk → trigger help desk alert

Epidemic risk → advisory banner or redirect

Military/smuggling risk → internal flag only

🏨 Hotel Booking via API (MVP)

Principles

Hotels are not stored locally

All hotel data comes from 3rd-party APIs (e.g. Booking.com)

Local DB only contains issued voucher metadata

User Flow

/hotels Landing (Level 1)

Form:

City (destination)

Check-in / Check-out

Number of guests

CTA: "Search"

/hotels/search Results Page (Level 2)

Left panel: Filters

Price range (slider)

Category (stars)

Distance from center or user-provided location (if API supports it)

Amenities: free cancellation, wifi, parking

Safe zone toggle

Right panel: Results via API

Hotel name, rating, price, image, CTA

Booking Redirect or Embed

External checkout or embedded widget

Payment handled by partner

Confirmation

API returns booking ID

Save to DB:

{
  "voucher_id": "EXTERNAL-ID",
  "user_email": "user@example.com",
  "hotel_name": "Hotel Kyiv",
  "city": "Kyiv",
  "checkin": "2025-09-01",
  "checkout": "2025-09-03",
  "created_at": "2025-07-31T12:00:00Z"
}

DB Structure: Booking Vouchers

Field

Type

Description

voucher_id

string

External booking reference

user_email

string

User email

hotel_name

string

Hotel name

city

string

City of stay

checkin

date

Check-in date

checkout

date

Check-out date

created_at

datetime

Time of booking

🗂 Internal Databases Required

Visa & Country DB

Fields: country_code, visa_required, duration_allowed, visa_type, entry_docs_required, epidemic_risk, migration_risk, military_risk, smuggling_risk

Epidemic Restrictions DB

Fields: disease, active_in, vaccination_required, source_link, last_updated

Insurance Policy DB

See Insurance section

Voucher Records (Hotel)

See Hotels section

Technical Considerations

Dynamic widgets

All input validated

API fallback if partner not reachable

Next Steps

Finalize DB schema for visa and medical inputs

Select insurance partner (API-ready)

Develop initial front-end for Explore Ukraine with regional filters

Create authoring guidelines for info content

Draft UI mockups for key flows (entry, insurance, booking)

Evaluate hotel API partners and test voucher flow

This version reflects the fully updated PRD structure with all content and flows discussed up to August 2, 2025.

